DBMS:- The DBMS is software  which is used to create and manage the database.

       Ex:-MySQL,Oracle,DB2,SyBase…etc

Advantages:-
---------- 
1. Security:- 
   
   Before Connecting to db, The dbms requires the user name and password from user. The dbms checks whether given credentials correct or not.
   If user is authenticated user, then only DBMS allows user to access data base.
 
   After connecting to db ,  when user access the data in database, dbms checks whetheruser has permission regarding to data or not.
   This is called authorization of user.

2. Data Sharing:- DBMS provides a plat form for sharing the data among the different applications and differnt users
   simultaneously, with out conflicts.

3. BackUp and Recovery:- DBMS provides Backup and recovery mechanism. The DBMS backups the data automatically and and periodically.It takes care of back up.
   It enables organizations to recover lost or damanaged data quickly and efficiently.
   Ex:- If computer crashes during complex transaction,
        The recovery system is responsible for ensuring that transaction resumes from where it is interrupted or at least restore to the state it was before
        transaction execution started. 

4. Faster data Access:- The database management system helps to produce quick answers to database queires thus making data access 
   faster and more accurate.The users get required data in required manner and very fastly.
5. Enforcing the Integrity constraints.
6. Reduancy:- DBMS reduces / eliminating (if possible) data redudancy by storing data in centralized location.
              Ex: In traditional File system, each user group maintains its own files.
                  University DB:- There are two user groups. 
                  1. Account Dept
                  2. Exam Dept.
              Account Dept maintains file which have the following columns.
                 a. Rollno
                 b. Name
                 c. Fee paid
                 d. Fee Due.
             Exam Dept maintains file which have the following columsn.
                 a. Rollno
                 b. Name
                 c. course
                 d. Grade.
            Details of Studen(rollno,name) is repeated in two files. This repetation leads to data redudancy, inconsistency  and data storage problems.
            During DB design, the data is integrated and all data is stored in one place of DB. so it controls the redudancy.     
   
   


